groups is all done here in Wuhan China
I'm joined right now by Kelsey Moser
from the score with my coverage
presented by Mobile Enix we've cranked
the ISO on this camera up because it is
really dark outside and it's starting to
sprinkle so we'll see how long this goes
but what did you think of groups Kelsey
groups I know you probably aren't that
happy I mean cloud9 made it out that is
uh that's the base minimum that we need
in North America I think to be able to
consider you carrying on so but I mean
why okay why are you happy
all trainees team succeed orangey yes
home soil and then actually not just
make it out of groups but make it out of
groups in first seed over a Korean team
after two owing them so I think that's
really exciting the fact that it
happened in China I think is really good
for the region and really good for the
League of Legends fan base here alright
the camera keeps turning off so I'm
going to ask you this question again see
and we'll see if we get an answer before
the camera dies is there any idea for
you what are your theories as to why
North America is losing teams do really
well first we are comfortable with their
picks other teams adjust and then any
teams don't adjust to the adjustment the
other running theories that I kind of
have has to do with North American wave
control and the fact that against TSM in
particular teams in North America will
just like stacked side waves and
discriminately and in slow pushes and
think this is good bearing control so
TSM doesn't really like have to venture
out on the map to scale back into the
game this time they kind of did in you
saw double if getting caught more often
inside lanes and things like that do you
I mean it just feel to me as though
North America maybe with the exception
of cloud but definitely IMT and TSM
performed below their standards in North
America like we saw double lift like
just not flashing whenever it was up
there's a game I think where somebody
told me that he died five times and
every time he died he had flash up so
which to me just feels like not
something we wouldn't expect to see from
players like that in North America one
particular thing that stands out though
is that I think that players do actually
read into some of the narratives right
when stuff happens again and again and
then like you lose your first game on a
day where you have to play three day
games in a row well not in a row but
just like yeah in succession to get out
of groups and then you lose your first
game you're like now what do I do I
didn't know how if I gets better or not
anyway you're like now what do I do
it's happening again it's gonna be a
week two North American implosion we're
all going to drop out of group stage
will be a disgrace everyone's going to
flame me on Twitter I can't and then
you're thinking of this instead of
thinking I just like press the stupid
flash key like it's fine yeah so just
this kind of mental breakdown occurs
live on stage I think mentality has a
really big thing to do with it I do
think that like when you do see teams
playing differently and this is
something that Chinese teams have also
commented on when they've had similar
like explosions is when you see teams
playing something differently from what
you're used to and then you kind of
panic and what if we can't playing it's
this or something like that I think that
also kind of happens to mentality is a
huge huge thing what do you think is SKT
gonna win this whole thing again because
they definitely look vulnerable today at
least and I think we always kind of see
this sort of SKT in group stages right
or invested ones or in games like this
where they have some issues I remember
the last time in China there was the
joke where they went to like high deal a
hot pot and then they couldn't really
focus on scrims because they kept taught
me to go to the bathroom so there can be
things and factors that go with this I
think SKT
and teams like SKT are really really
good at adapting after shaking shaky
game ones and that was what makes them
really strong investor fives and
comebacks like they have really showing
mentality because probably strong
mentality comes to exert from winning so
much because it's like yeah we can
always find a way to pull it out we know
this we've been here before so I think
that
you still have like a really really
strong chance of winning I don't know if
they're necessarily the favorites but I
don't feel like my assessment of them
has changed that much other than I
expected them to do a little bit better
in an ardent Sun sonata because I
thought wolf would be more comfortable
and he still kind of looks awkward to an
extent
speaking of Arden sensor it felt like
this week we started to see some
interesting ways around it or different
ways to doing it with it especially
Caitlin what do you think of sort of the
different strategies in mobile you
continue to see the meta evolved before
we get to quarterfinals yeah teams are
focusing a little bit on the early game
meant they're more willing to kind of
race the iron and sensor I think part of
the reason is is because the dominant
supports we have are John and Lulu and
Lulu is just going to be like much
better for dominant early game
strategies and if it's like the next bus
support off you're gonna and you're
letting Johnny get through you really
really have to race Johnny's
effectiveness because Jonna is going to
like scale better be more effective with
Arden sensor and just do a lot more for
you and like the late game T buds so I
think teams are experimenting more with
like how they can make Lulu much more
effective in the laning phase so that's
kind of where I see that coming from
yeah very good well any other at the end
here you have any other surprises or
things that you thought were interesting
about groups or anything else that's
going on I mean I think it's really
exciting that we're seeing European
teams find ways to succeed and adapt
even though people are really low on
them people kind of predicted they
wouldn't get out of group stage or at
least not do as well I think that's
really exciting and really healthy for
the region because people are saying oh
why won't you up if any it's just better
but my rift Drive was it's kind of like
you know what happened to LPL in 2015
when they won this tournament the hub in
the middle of the year that no one
really
yeah like called MSI and then anyone
that's even more insignificant
tournament in the middle of the year
that don't cared about called rift
rivals and then they went to the world
championship and then oh my gosh why
aren't we doing well like I think that
this year actually and I had a very
similar year to the year LPL had in 2015
in terms of the environment and what
they were focusing on a lot of money
came into the region and they decided to
use it to import like a lot of higher
quality players than I think they did
and for a while in spring I think their
coordination and macro player was really
uncoordinated so I'm not sure how much
of an impact impact it had but like an
influx of money and influx or
sponsorship deals don't always lead to
success so I don't know it all depends
on what you prioritize because if you
prioritize that sort of thing I think it
could be healthy for the scene but you
just gotta find a good balance so good
luck guys and yeah yup
whoa you're doing a bunch of coverage
and here where can people find it and
anything special you want to highlight I
currently am doing written content for
ESPN doing a lot more future based stuff
but you can find that and like an input
from players and interviews kind of
woven into what I'm doing at espn.com
thank you so much Kelsey for the
interview for one else this is Travis
cafard reporting live from the storm in
Wuhan as the rain starts to roll in and
the EDG fans start screaming in the
background you can check out more
coverage especially if this car doesn't
hit us here on my youtube channel I want
to thank you all so much for the kind
words and support about my videos here
in China I've been trying to put out a
ton of great stuff and you know what it
wouldn't be possible if it wasn't for my
sponsor mobile it except better at Lee
legends by identifying your personal
strengths and weaknesses and you can
actually check them out over at mobile
excites you G / Travis they're also
running a great giveaway that's in the
description of this video so feel free
to check them out